docs/src/models.md, before:

# Models, Valuation, Projections, and Fitting

## Introduction

Conceptually, we have an iterative process:

1. We use models to value contracts
2. We use observed (or assumed) prices to calibrate models

Thus the discussion of model calibration and valuation of contracts is inextricably linked together.

## Yield (Interest Rate) models

### Rates

We should first discuss `Rate`s, which are reexported from [`FinanceCore.jl`](https://github.com/JuliaActuary/FinanceCore.jl)

Rates are types that wrap scalar values to provide information about how to determine `discount` and `accumulation` factors. These allow for explicit handling of rate compounding conventions which, if not explicit, is often a source of errors in practice.

There are two `Frequency` types:

- `Yields.Periodic(m)` for rates that compound `m` times per period (e.g. `m` times per year if working with annual rates).
- `Yields.Continuous()` for continuously compounding rates.

#### Examples

```julia
Continuous(0.05)       # 5% continuously compounded
Periodic(0.05,2)       # 5% compounded twice per period
```

These are both subtypes of the parent `Rate` type and are instantiated as:

```julia
Rate(0.05,Continuous())       # 5% continuously compounded
Rate(0.05,Periodic(2))        # 5% compounded twice per period
```

Broadcast over a vector to create `Rates` with the given compounding:

```julia
Periodic.([0.02,0.03,0.04],2) 
Continuous.([0.02,0.03,0.04]) 
```

Rates can also be constructed by specifying the `CompoundingFrequency` and then passing a scalar rate:

```julia
Periodic(1)(0.05)
Continuous()(0.05)
```

#### Conversion

Convert rates between different types with `convert`. E.g.:

```julia
r = Rate(0.01,Periodic(12))             # rate that compounds 12 times per rate period (ie monthly)

convert(Yields.Periodic(1),r)                  # convert monthly rate to annual effective
convert(Yields.Continuous(),r)          # convert monthly rate to continuous
```

To get the scalar value out of the `Rate`, use `FinanceModels.rate(r)`:

```julia-rel
julia> r = Rate(0.01,Periodic(12));   
julia> rate(r)
0.01

```

#### Arithmetic

Adding, subtracting, multiplying, dividing, and comparing rates is supported.

### Available Models - Yields

- [`FinanceModels.Yield.Constant`](@ref)
- Bootstrapped [`Spline`](@ref FinanceModels.Spline)s
- [`FinanceModels.Yield.SmithWilson`](@ref)
- [`FinanceModels.Yield.NelsonSiegel`](@ref)
- [`FinanceModels.Yield.NelsonSiegelSvensson`](@ref)

Yield models can also be composed. Here is an example of fitting rates and spread separately and then adding the two models together:

```julia-repl
julia> q_rate = ZCBYield([0.01,0.02,0.03]);

julia> q_spread = ZCBYield([0.01,0.01,0.01]);

julia> m_rate = fit(Spline.Linear(),q_rate,Fit.Bootstrap());⠀           

julia> m_spread = fit(Spline.Linear(),q_spread,Fit.Bootstrap());

julia> forward(m_spread + m_rate,0,1)
Rate{Float64, Continuous}(0.01980262729617973, Continuous())

julia> forward(m_spread + m_rate,0,1) |> Periodic(1)
Rate{Float64, Periodic}(0.020000000000000018, Periodic(1))

julia> discount(m_spread + m_rate,0,3)
0.8889963586709149

julia> discount(0.04,3)
0.8889963586709148
```

### Creating New Yield Models

See the [FinanceModels.jl Guide](@ref) for an example of creating a model from scratch. Some additional aspects to note:

- The only method that must be defined to calculate the [`FinanceCore.present_value`](@ref) of something is [`FinanceCore.discount`](@ref). Other methods will be inferred.
- Other methods that are imputed by default, but can be extended include: [`FinanceCore.accumulation`](@ref), [`FinanceModels.forward`](@ref), [`FinanceModels.par`](@ref), [`FinanceModels.zero`](@ref), and [`FinanceModels.rate`](@ref).

## Equity and Volatility Models

### Available Models - Option Valuation

- [`FinanceModels.Equity.BlackScholesMerton`](@ref)

### Available Models - Volatility

- [`FinanceModels.Volatility.Constant`](@ref)

#### Creating new Volatility Models

A volatility model must extend `volatility(vol::Volatility.MyNewModel, strike_ratio, time_to_maturity)`.

Commit message:

add warning re:par yield composition (#181)

docs/src/models.md, after:

# Models, Valuation, Projections, and Fitting

## Introduction

Conceptually, we have an iterative process:

1. We use models to value contracts
2. We use observed (or assumed) prices to calibrate models

Thus the discussion of model calibration and valuation of contracts is inextricably linked together.

## Yield (Interest Rate) models

### Rates

We should first discuss `Rate`s, which are reexported from [`FinanceCore.jl`](https://github.com/JuliaActuary/FinanceCore.jl)

Rates are types that wrap scalar values to provide information about how to determine `discount` and `accumulation` factors. These allow for explicit handling of rate compounding conventions which, if not explicit, is often a source of errors in practice.

There are two `Frequency` types:

- `Yields.Periodic(m)` for rates that compound `m` times per period (e.g. `m` times per year if working with annual rates).
- `Yields.Continuous()` for continuously compounding rates.

#### Examples

```julia
Continuous(0.05)       # 5% continuously compounded
Periodic(0.05,2)       # 5% compounded twice per period
```

These are both subtypes of the parent `Rate` type and are instantiated as:

```julia
Rate(0.05,Continuous())       # 5% continuously compounded
Rate(0.05,Periodic(2))        # 5% compounded twice per period
```

Broadcast over a vector to create `Rates` with the given compounding:

```julia
Periodic.([0.02,0.03,0.04],2) 
Continuous.([0.02,0.03,0.04]) 
```

Rates can also be constructed by specifying the `CompoundingFrequency` and then passing a scalar rate:

```julia
Periodic(1)(0.05)
Continuous()(0.05)
```

#### Conversion

Convert rates between different types with `convert`. E.g.:

```julia
r = Rate(0.01,Periodic(12))             # rate that compounds 12 times per rate period (ie monthly)

convert(Yields.Periodic(1),r)                  # convert monthly rate to annual effective
convert(Yields.Continuous(),r)          # convert monthly rate to continuous
```

To get the scalar value out of the `Rate`, use `FinanceModels.rate(r)`:

```julia-rel
julia> r = Rate(0.01,Periodic(12));   
julia> rate(r)
0.01

```

### Available Models - Yields

- [`FinanceModels.Yield.Constant`](@ref)
- Bootstrapped [`Spline`](@ref FinanceModels.Spline)s
- [`FinanceModels.Yield.SmithWilson`](@ref)
- [`FinanceModels.Yield.NelsonSiegel`](@ref)
- [`FinanceModels.Yield.NelsonSiegelSvensson`](@ref)

#### Arithmetic

Adding, subtracting, multiplying, dividing, and comparing rates is supported.

Yield models can also be composed. Here is an example of fitting rates and spread separately and then adding the two models together:

```julia-repl
julia> q_rate = ZCBYield([0.01,0.02,0.03]);

julia> q_spread = ZCBYield([0.01,0.01,0.01]);

julia> m_rate = fit(Spline.Linear(),q_rate,Fit.Bootstrap());⠀           

julia> m_spread = fit(Spline.Linear(),q_spread,Fit.Bootstrap());

julia> forward(m_spread + m_rate,0,1)
Rate{Float64, Continuous}(0.01980262729617973, Continuous())

julia> forward(m_spread + m_rate,0,1) |> Periodic(1)
Rate{Float64, Periodic}(0.020000000000000018, Periodic(1))

julia> discount(m_spread + m_rate,0,3)
0.8889963586709149

julia> discount(0.04,3)
0.8889963586709148
```

!!! warning "Caution with Spreads"

    It is fairly common to see spreads and rates provided separately where both are quoted in par convention. For example, US Treasury par rates with the associated par risk spreads. Because par rates are dependent on the amount and path of rates preceeding the given tenor, **it is not valid to construct a "spread curve" with par rates and then use it in composition with a "rate curve"**.
    
    That is, while the zero rates and spreads in the preceeding example allow for additive or subtractive composition, it is not the case for par rates and spreads. Note the different discount factors produced:

    ```julia
    q_rate = ParYield([0.01,0.02,0.03]);
    q_spread = ParYield([0.01,0.01,0.01]);
    q_yield = ParYield([0.02,0.03,0.04]);

    m_rate = fit(Spline.Linear(),q_rate,Fit.Bootstrap());         
    m_spread = fit(Spline.Linear(),q_spread,Fit.Bootstrap());
    m_yield = fit(Spline.Linear(),q_yield,Fit.Bootstrap());

    # The curves are different!
    discount(m_spread + m_rate,3)
    # 0.8889963586709149

    discount(m_yield,3)
    # 0.8864366955434709
    ```

### Creating New Yield Models

See the [FinanceModels.jl Guide](@ref) for an example of creating a model from scratch. Some additional aspects to note:

- The only method that must be defined to calculate the [`FinanceCore.present_value`](@ref) of something is [`FinanceCore.discount`](@ref). Other methods will be inferred.
- Other methods that are imputed by default, but can be extended include: [`FinanceCore.accumulation`](@ref), [`FinanceModels.forward`](@ref), [`FinanceModels.par`](@ref), [`FinanceModels.zero`](@ref), and [`FinanceModels.rate`](@ref).

## Equity and Volatility Models

### Available Models - Option Valuation

- [`FinanceModels.Equity.BlackScholesMerton`](@ref)

### Available Models - Volatility

- [`FinanceModels.Volatility.Constant`](@ref)

#### Creating new Volatility Models

A volatility model must extend `volatility(vol::Volatility.MyNewModel, strike_ratio, time_to_maturity)`.
